# Review paper on Effectiveness of machine learning algorithm for classification of EEG signals in epileptic seizure
In this paper,  an investigation of the effectiveness  of machine learning algorithms for classification of EEG signals in Epileptic seizure is performed. Machine learning techniques are based on artificial neural networks with representation learning. Learning can either be supervised, semi-supervised, or unsupervised. Deep Learning is a subset of a broader family of machine learning. Deep Learning design such as deep neural net- works, deep belief networks, recurrent networks, and convolution networks is used in fields like computer vision, audio processing, drug design, medical image analysis, medical inspection and so on, where the obtained results are comparable to and in some cases outdo the human expert system. Electroencephalography (EEG) is a complicated signal and can require many years of training to be accurately interpreted. Machine learning  (ML) has shown a significant effect on EEG signals due to its capacity to learn better quality representations  from  raw  data.  EEG  has many application domains such as epilepsy, sleep disorder, brain-computer interfacing, cognitive and affective monitoring. Epilepsy is a chronic disease of the brain that affects all ages(more seen in young children and old age). Around 50 million people worldwide have epilepsy; it is one of the most common neurological diseases globally. The brain uses electrical signals to communicate between the brain cells; if the electrical signal is interrupted, a seizure occurs. This seizure in the brain is called  as Epilepsy. Different types of seizures show different effects on humans like jerks, sudden falls, and confused state. Whenever an epileptic seizure occurs, there will be a change in brain activities, which is known as epileptiform, and these changes can easily be seen on EEG recording. Sometimes people may have epileptiform without having a seizure, so an EEG is beneficial in this case.

Index Terms—Machine Learning, Epilepsy, EEG signal classification

